Smishing is similar to vishing, except it is the act of phishing done over text messages (short message service - SMS). Usually you will get a text with a scary-looking body with phrasing like

"Your recent Citibank transaction to HELLO FRESH was BLOCKED due to FRAUD. If you wish to confirm this was a LEGITIMATE transaction, click the link IMMEDIATELY or you're BANNED from purchasing from us FOREVER."

As mentioned in the vishing section, their goal is to intimidate you--to play on your feelings and fears so your judgement skews and you give into their demands. Thankfully, with smishing, it is easier to find out information as there is no voice demanding you answer them. With a text message, there is room for ambiguity as to when it was read, opened, or interacted with. If the text specifies a bank and you're not a customer of that bank, that is an immediate clue that you're being scammed. Or, if a friend who uses your account has an account with that bank (let's say CitiBank for simplicity's sake), call your friend or meet with them in person and have them confirm with the bank if there was indeed fraud first; the same applies to you if the text message matches your bank.

Remember to be mindful of the hyperlink included in the text message, chances are it leads to either a webpage with an unsecure domain that installs malicious software into your mobile device (which is also why you should be careful with smishing attempts as they may be destructive as well), or a fake website (much more likely) that looks like your bank's login page, but is really a means of you willingly handing over your information to bad actors!

While all this information sounds scary, it is important (and crucial in this day and age) to know it. If you do receive a smishing attempt, block and delete the contact. But if you have reason to be doubtful, contact your bank. Remember: your bank will never ask you to log in to confirm your password or contact you that unprofessionally if you were accused of fraud. Also, their company policy is likely that their hyperlinks and domains are readily recognizable and follow up-to-date and established cybersecurity standards.

