Vishing (Voice + Phishing = Vishing) is a term used to define phishing over the phone, which commonly happens to people who own a smartphone. Usually, you'll receive robocalls claiming that your car's extended warranty is about to expire and tell you to speak with them in order to renew it. This is vishing because most vehicle owners would worry about having to pay more out of pocket for their car, and call the number left by the automated messaging system as if it were legitimate and fall for the scam. Vishing can be just as effective as phishing over an email, but you must remember to stay vigilant, alert, and keep your guard up.

Credit card companies, financial institutions, or the police/other law enforcement agencies would not directly call you and ask you for money or sensitive information as those higher institutions would already have that on file as a citizen of your respective country or as a customer subscribed to their services. Furthermore, they would address you by name and ask security questions that have no sensitive information behind them before undergoing any process with you. Let's use a specific example related to ordering food:

Let's say you're a regular customer of DoorDash, but suddenly, there comes a day where you get a mysterious phone call from a number you do not recognize and it claims to be a fraud department. Right out of the gate, the person or recording from behind the other line would try to sound intimidating and accusatory in some cases, claiming that you have committed fraud and that you are now on a blacklist. Furthermore, they will order you not to cut the call or else they will report you to the authorities, further tensing you up.

Once they have your attention, they will instruct you to pay a fine or a fee to reinstate your good standing by asking sensitive information such as your Social Security Number, your credit card information, etc. You should not give this information to them, as it can lead to more dire consequences such as identity theft, lowered credit score, among other major inconveniences.

Let's talk about Smishing now.